# CS-305-Software-Security

### Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and its software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did the company want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a client of the engineering company Global Rain that was looking to modernize and secure their software offerings. Artemis Financial is a consulting firm that offers personalized financial plans for individuals looking for assistance with their savings, retirement, investment, and/or insurance plans. They requested Global Rain’s assistance with improving their current public web interface application to verify it is implementing the current standards for software security.

### What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?
I effectively applied secure coding practices and utilized automated security testing tools to detect potential risks early in the development process. Coding securely is crucial because it prevents data breaches, protects user privacy, and ensures system integrity, reducing the risk of financial and reputational damage. Strong software security enhances a company’s overall well-being by fostering customer trust, ensuring compliance, and minimizing security incidents that could disrupt business operations.

### Which part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
When performing a vulnerability assessment, one of the challenging aspects is identifying and prioritizing security risks among various detected vulnerabilities. Determining which risks posed the most significant threats requires careful analysis and an understanding of potential attack vectors. I did however find the process helpful in reinforcing secure coding practices as I was able to review common weaknesses that should be addressed and insight into better security strategies used within the industry. 

### How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
The request from Artemis Financial was to improve security to within the web interface application to add file verification during the file upload process to ensure file integrity. This feature was successfully accomplished using Java’s MessageDigest class and implementing a function using the SHA-256 hashing algorithm to return the checksum of the file being uploaded and displayed within the web page for manual review.
In the future, I would continue to use SAST tools such as OWASP vulnerability scanner to assess any risks associated with the libraries and frameworks chosen for the application. I would also be sure to remain up-to-date with any recent updates to secure coding standards or newly discovered vulnerabilities to confirm I am not intentionally adding any unnecessary attack vectors to my application.

### How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
During the development process, I confirmed the refactored code was functioning as intended by performing live testing on my local workstation. Confirming the application started without any errors and was able to terminate gracefully. I also confirmed that no new vulnerabilities were introduced by performing vulnerability assessments before and after any code was modified and reviewing the details of each report carefully.

### What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
During this project, I was able to work in-depth reviewing and analyzing reports generated by OWASP vulnerability scanner. This included reviewing reports to determine if any false positives were reported, modifying the pom.xml file to include a list of false positives that should be safely ignored, as well as an understanding on how I can obtain additional information on the vulnerabilities discovered by reviewing the CVE listed on vulnerability databases such as the NVD portal provided by NIST. This experience, along with the secure coding practices that were implemented, will be critical to ensure any future assignments or projects I am working on are free of vulnerabilities.

### Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
I would present the refactored code along with the report created document the security improvements that were implemented for Artemis Financial. 
